# 1882. Process Tasks Using Servers

## Question

You are given two **0-indexed** integer arrays `servers` and `tasks` of lengths `n`​​​​​​ and `m`​​​​​​ respectively. `servers[i]` is the **weight** of the `i​​​​​​th`​​​​ server, and `tasks[j]` is the **time needed** to process the `j​​​​​​th`​​​​ task **in seconds**.

Tasks are assigned to the servers using a **task queue**. Initially, all servers are free, and the queue is **empty**.

At second `j`, the `jth` task is **inserted** into the queue (starting with the `0th` task being inserted at second `0`). As long as there are free servers and the queue is not empty, the task in the front of the queue will be assigned to a free server with the **smallest weight**, and in case of a tie, it is assigned to a free server with the **smallest index**.

If there are no free servers and the queue is not empty, we wait until a server becomes free and immediately assign the next task. If multiple servers become free at the same time, then multiple tasks from the queue will be assigned **in order of insertion** following the weight and index priorities above.

A server that is assigned task `j` at second `t` will be free again at second `t + tasks[j]`.

Build an array `ans`​​​​ of length `m`, where `ans[j]` is the **index** of the server the `j​​​​​​th` task will be assigned to.

Return _the array_ `ans`​​​​.

**Example 1:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: servers = [3,3,2], tasks = [1,2,3,2,1,2]
</strong><strong>Output: [2,2,0,2,1,2]
</strong><strong>Explanation: Events in chronological order go as follows:
</strong>- At second 0, task 0 is added and processed using server 2 until second 1.
- At second 1, server 2 becomes free. Task 1 is added and processed using server 2 until second 3.
- At second 2, task 2 is added and processed using server 0 until second 5.
- At second 3, server 2 becomes free. Task 3 is added and processed using server 2 until second 5.
- At second 4, task 4 is added and processed using server 1 until second 5.
- At second 5, all servers become free. Task 5 is added and processed using server 2 until second 7.
</code></pre>

**Example 2:**

<pre><code><strong>Input: servers = [5,1,4,3,2], tasks = [2,1,2,4,5,2,1]
</strong><strong>Output: [1,4,1,4,1,3,2]
</strong><strong>Explanation: Events in chronological order go as follows: 
</strong>- At second 0, task 0 is added and processed using server 1 until second 2.
- At second 1, task 1 is added and processed using server 4 until second 2.
- At second 2, servers 1 and 4 become free. Task 2 is added and processed using server 1 until second 4. 
- At second 3, task 3 is added and processed using server 4 until second 7.
- At second 4, server 1 becomes free. Task 4 is added and processed using server 1 until second 9. 
- At second 5, task 5 is added and processed using server 3 until second 7.
- At second 6, task 6 is added and processed using server 2 until second 7.
</code></pre>

**Constraints:**

* `servers.length == n`
* `tasks.length == m`
* `1 <= n, m <= 2 * 105`
* `1 <= servers[i], tasks[j] <= 2 * 105`

## Solution

#### Java

```java
// sol: min heap
class Solution {
    class Server {
        int idx, weight;
        int freeTime;

        public Server(int idx, int weight) {
            this.idx = idx;
            this.weight = weight;
            freeTime = -1;
        }
    }

    public int[] assignTasks(int[] servers, int[] tasks) {
        int m = servers.length, n = tasks.length;
        PriorityQueue<Server> freeServerQueue = new PriorityQueue<>((o1, o2) -> (o1.weight == o2.weight ? o1.idx - o2.idx : o1.weight - o2.weight));
        PriorityQueue<Server> busyServerQueue = new PriorityQueue<>((o1, o2) -> (o1.freeTime - o2.freeTime));
        int taskIdx = 0;
        int time = 0;
        int[] res = new int[n];
        for (int i = 0; i < m; ++i) {
            freeServerQueue.add(new Server(i, servers[i]));
        }
        while (taskIdx < n) {
            while (!busyServerQueue.isEmpty() && busyServerQueue.peek().freeTime <= time) {
                freeServerQueue.add(busyServerQueue.poll());
            }
            while (!freeServerQueue.isEmpty() && taskIdx <= time && taskIdx < n) {
                Server t = freeServerQueue.poll();
                res[taskIdx] = t.idx;
                t.freeTime = time + tasks[taskIdx];
                busyServerQueue.add(t);
                ++taskIdx;
            }
            if (!freeServerQueue.isEmpty()) {
                ++time;
            } else {
                time = busyServerQueue.peek().freeTime;
            }
        }
        return res;
    }
}
```
